https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/10/15/1010461/artificial-general-intelligence-robots-ai-agi-deepmind-google-openai/?utm_source=engagement_email&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=site_visitor.unpaid.engagement&utm_term=editor-favorites&utm_content=12.20.subs&mc_cid=7baa7ebed7&mc_eid=56dbda6dfa

AGI (Artificial General Intelligence) is more of a dream/vision than a concrete definition. Suposedly the last invention man will have to make, AGI is the concept of machines having general human-like intelligence with the capacity to learn new tasks exponentially and have a conciousness or some combination of these ideas. This concept divides AI researchers, some are focused on closer/easier to solve problems while others have this dream as the motivating factor. For AI researchers, managing expectations of research results is important as unrealistic expectations in the past have dried up research funding for a quite a while. AI today has advanced to a one-algorithm model where AI can do one thing exceedingly well through deep-learning/Neural Networks. To advance further to generalize these AI, there are some methods like transfer-learning, implementation of "common sense" and others that could be a next step. Future visions of AGI seem to have a few camps. One that this can be a brute force problem and we will eventually achieve it by massive computation. Another is that we have to map the model of the human mind more precisely and replicate that in machines. And of course, many think that a combination of both will get us closer to AGI. Advances in AI today don't necessarily mean that we have gotten any closer to AGI and timelines for AGI are nebulous given it's nature.
