Making Impossible States Impossible by Richard Feldman - A talk at elm-conference that can be found [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IcgmSRJHu_8)

This line of thinking was motivated by a specification problem. There specification problem was designing an API to transpile Elm into CSS stylesheets. CSS stylesheets have specific ways they must be specified per the CSS specification or they will be invalid for browsers. Richard wrote an api mimicking the look and feel of css stylesheet specification in Elm that was problematic because this implementation needed a validation phase i.e. testing to make sure what was put was valid. To remove the need to validate data collected from the api, a colleague suggested making the state of having an invalid specification impossible. This was achieved by plainly looking at the data that was being modeled and realizing that the data model was not being specified appropriately. By more accurately modeling the data necessary for a CSS stylesheet, Richard made it impossible to specify a wrong stylesheet with the module he was building. Making impossible states impossible in Elm development is the notion to rely on the rigourous type system and compiler to enforce certain constraints of business logic being modeled by software. 

Richard gives another idea to module development and breaking changes. He advises when developing a module, to specify the underlying data model as accurately as possible. However, allowing users access to this underlying implementation is problematic for a couple of reasons. The underlying implementation can solve the problem of making the impossible states impossible very well but can make for a tricky user experience. Additionally by exposing the implemenation the module is more vulnerable to breaking changes with existing code integrations. Richard advises to follow the pattern of data accessor functions as this pattern will be agnostic to the implementation underneath the module. Personally, this looks a lot like the interface pattern seen in Java applications.
