[Course on edX](https://courses.edx.org/courses/course-v1:HarvardX+SPU27.1x+3T2019/course/)

**Module 1 - Molecules, Moles, Flavor and pH**

We can use equations for understanding relationshipss in cooking. Food is made of different molecules. These molecules are classified into 3-4 categories based on their properties. We refer to the number of molucules a substance has with the Mol unit. The molecules will be part of chemical reactions. Chemical reactions are foundational to cooking. Predictions can be made about cooking by understanding what chemical reactions are occuring in the cooking process. We can model chemical reactions with mathematical equations. Dimensional analysis (unit conversion) is a helpful tool to work with mathematical equations. Because cooking often boils down into chemical reactions and balancing equations, being able to perform dimensional analysis is crucial. It lets cooks create different recipes and adapt recipes to ingredients that are on hand.

Flavor is the amalgamation of the sensory experience with food. Sight, smell, touch and taste all contribute. Flavor molecules exist in tiny quantities in our food relative to other present molecules and still have a great effect on what we eat. Acidity affects flavor. It can keep meals lighter on the palate and balance flavor. An acid is a molecule that releases a hydrogen ion. The pH scale standardizes the measure of a substances willingness to give up a hydrogen ion. Many ingredients can contribute to the pH level of a dish, not just the obviously acidic ones like lemon or vinegars.

**Module 2 - Energy, Temperature and Heat**

The application of heat to transform raw ingredients is a part of cooking. Our bodies use apply heat by burning oxygen to convert food into energy. The principles of energy extraction are the same whether our body is using oxygen to burn fat into energy or we are burning wood to heat our oven. 

Temperature is a measure of how active molecules are. When heat is applied to a substance, we are exciting the molecules that comprise the substance potentially causing chemical reactions and change. Common ways of transfering energy to food are burning fuel(gas/bbq) and using electricity(microwave). We can measure how much energy we are transfering by observing the heat source's energy density(joules/kg).

Specific heat is a measure of the amount of energy(J/kg) it takes to raise a substance by 1 degree Centigrade. We can balance the specific heat equation to find how much energy it takes to raise the temperature of a substance X by Y degrees. The principle of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. By combining these two learnings we can figure out how long to cook food at and at what temperature if we know what temperature we want food to reach. Water has a high specific heat relative to other commonly used cooking ingredients. One application of this knowledge is that foods that have higher water content have a greater chance of burning mouths when hot. A calorie is the amount of energy it would take to heat 1 Liter of water 1 degreee Centigrade,the specific temperature of water. The 4-4-9 rule can be applied to approximate calories if the weight of protein, carbs, and fats is known. 
