Title: The life-changing magic of tidying up
Author: Marie Kondo

# Summary
Employing the Kon-Marie method not only tidies the house but can give perspective and life-style change. Kondo throughout the book relates her life story as it applies to her tidying journey and how she came to the method that she teaches today. First, kondo motivates the need for a tidying education in the first part of the book. She asserts taht tidying is not formally taught in any capacity, school or from parents. She has also observed that tidying is not usually learned through experience. Therefore, it takes dedicated study to learn to tidy. Kondo motivates the need for a good tidying method further by saying existing tidying methods and idealogy are not often successful and result in rebound to a messy state. Tidying involves answering two questions about items in question, "Should i get rid of it?" followed by "Where should I put it?". Additionally, to prevent rebound she asserts that a lifestyle change is neccessary to not build up clutter again. 

The Kon-Marie method optimizes being surrounded by happiness in the household. The method is to systematically work your way through every item in your house broken down in order by category (clothes, books, papers, komono, mementos). You must hold each item close to you and ask if that item brings joy to you. It is important to keep in mind here that we are asking what to keep, not what to get rid of which is starkly different to common tidying methods. If the item does not bring joy, thank it for it's service to you and move on from it. If the item does bring joy, you keep it and decide where to put items after discarding is done. There is a little more nuance but that is basically it. 

She has a few suggestions for storage of items and how to start the process. She says before starting the process, take time and envision the space you want to live in to give clarity to decision making. She also suggests when deciding places for storage, optimize the decisions around ease of putting away. If something is easy to put away, it will be less likely to add to clutter in the future. Every item having it's own place in the house is also important to avoid clutter. Further, vertical storage is preferred to horizontal and when folding clothes try to aim to fold into a rectangle. Sentimental items can be difficult to discard even though they no longer bring you joy. To deal with this case and others, Kondo suggests to ask what the purpose of the item was and has it already served it's purpose. Kondo also suggests to store papers by category, papers to deal with and documents needed to keep. Keep each in a separate place, perhaps a bin or clear folder.

The mindset change is a big part of the Kon-Marie process. She recognizes that it is tough to change your mind or habits. To address this Kondo asks that you do her process all at once instead of little at a time. This is so you see results immediately and allow the best opportunity to change our mind. Kondo asserts that we can build empathy for messier individuals after being confronted by many decisions through the process. Through this process you will naturally have more appreciation for what you own and also build further appreciation for what you own. Kondo relates her experience that after her clients complete her method they have new-found clarity in their life. They are more decisive in their wants and desires out of life and act on this. This could be because they have been training their decision making process and fine-tuning what brings them joy among their possessions.

